h1. For Contributors to the Hydra-Head Gem

h2. Testing the Gem

h3. For the Impatient 

# Clone the Hydra-Head code (to a fresh working copy) <pre>git clone git@github.com:projecthydra/hydra-head.git</pre>
# Switch to the hydra-head directory <pre>cd hydra-head</pre>
# Install bundler gem <pre>gem install bundler</pre>
# Get the project dependencies <pre>bundle install</pre>
# Grab the jetty submodule <pre>git submodule init; git submodule update</pre>
# Run the tests <pre>rake ci</pre> 
This rake task:
## creates the test apps in hydra-core/spec/internal and hydra-file-access/spec/internal
## spins up jetty (in jettywrapper)
## imports fixtures
## runs rspec
## kills jetty (in jettywrapper)

h3. More Detailed Instructions & Notes

h4. Hydra-Jetty

In order to test the gem during development, the hydra-jetty is included as a submodule to provide both a fedora and solr instance.  Once you have cloned the github repository, run the following commands to load hydra-jetty:

<pre>
git submodule init
git submodule update
</pre>

To start jetty: <pre>rake jetty:start</pre>

Note: the first time you start hydra-jetty, you must use the following command in order to properly configure jetty:

<pre>
rake hydra:jetty:load
</pre>


h4.  Testing the gem

The gem must be tested within the context of a Rails 3 application.  

A rake task is provided for setting up a rails 3 test app in the hydra-core/spec/internal and hydra-file-access/spec/internal directories.  To generate the app, run:

<pre>
rake generate
</pre>

The specs fixtures for testing the Hydra-Head gem are all contained within the spec/support directories of the gems.  Once you have installed the test app and have Hydra-Jetty running, you will be able to run the specs for each gem via the provided rake tasks.

In order to run a single spec use the following from the command line:

<pre>
rake spec SPEC=spec/controllers/catalog_controller_spec.rb  # path to the spec file you wish to run
</pre>